In this section, we'll
discuss a type of
network security feature
called a security zone.
Security zones are a
segment of a network
that protects the internal
network from the internet.
They are a part of a
security technique
called network segmentation
that divides the network
into segments.
Each network segment has
its own access permissions
and security rules.
Security zones control who can
access different
segments of a network.
Security zones act as a
barrier to internal networks,
maintain privacy within
corporate groups,
and prevent issues from
spreading to the whole network.
One example of network
segmentation is
a hotel that offers
free public Wi-Fi.
The unsecured guest network
is kept separate from
another encrypted network
used by the hotel staff.
Additionally, an organization's
network can be divided into
subnetworks, or subnets, to
maintain privacy for each
department in a organization.
For instance, at a university,
there may be a faculty subnet
and a separate students subnet.
If there is contamination
on the student's subnet,
network administrators
can isolate it and
keep the rest of the network
free from contamination.
An organization's network
is classified into
two types of security
zones. First,
there's the uncontrolled zone,
which is any network outside of
the organization's control,
like the internet.
Then, there's the
controlled zone,
which is a subnet that protects
the internal network from
the uncontrolled zone.
There are several types of
networks within the
controlled zone.
On the outer layer is
the demilitarized zone,
or DMZ, which contains
public-facing services that
can access the internet.
This includes web servers,
proxy servers that host
websites for the public,
and DNS servers that provide
IP addresses for internet users.
It also includes email and file
servers that handle
external communications.
The DMZ acts as
a network perimeter to
the internal network.
The internal network
contains private servers and
data that the organization
needs to protect.
Inside the internal network is
another zone called
the restricted zone.
The restricted zone protects
highly confidential
information that is only
accessible to employees
with certain privileges.
Now, let's try to picture
these security zones.
Ideally, the DMZ is
situated between
two firewalls. One of them
filters traffic outside the DMZ,
and one of them filters traffic
entering the internal network.
This protects the
internal network
with several lines of defense.
If there's a restricted zone,
that too would be protected with
another firewall. This way,
attacks that penetrate into
the DMZ network cannot spread
to the internal network,
and attacks that penetrate
the internal network cannot
access the restricted zone.
As a security analyst,
you may be responsible
for regulating
access control policies
on these firewalls.
Security teams can
control traffic reaching
the DMZ and the internal network
by restricting IPs and ports.
For example, an analyst
may ensure that
only HTTPS traffic is
allowed to access web
servers in the DMZ.
Security zones are
an important part of
securing networks,
especially in large
organizations.
Understanding how
they are used is
essential for all
security analysts.
Coming up, we'll learn about
securing internal networks.